docs/en/02_Developer_Guides/04_Configuration/01_SiteConfig.md, before:

# SiteConfig: Global database content

## Introduction

The `[api:SiteConfig]` panel provides a generic interface for managing site wide settings or
functionality which is used throughout the site. Out of the box it provides 2 fields 'Site Name' and 'Site Tagline'.

## Accessing `[api:SiteConfig]` Options

You can access `[api:SiteConfig]` options from any SS template by using the function $SiteConfig.FieldName

	:::ss
	$SiteConfig.Title 
	$SiteConfig.Tagline
	
	// or 
	
	<% with $SiteConfig %>
	$Title $AnotherField
	<% end_with %>


Or if you want to access variables in the PHP you can do

	:::php
	$config = SiteConfig::current_site_config(); 
	$config->Title


## Extending `[api:SiteConfig]`

To extend the options available in the panel you can define your own fields via an Extension.

Create a mysite/code/CustomSiteConfig.php file.

	:::php
	<?php
	
	class CustomSiteConfig extends DataExtension {
		
		private static $db = array(
			'FooterContent' => 'HTMLText'
		);
	
		public function updateCMSFields(FieldList $fields) {
			$fields->addFieldToTab("Root.Main", new HTMLEditorField("FooterContent", "Footer Content"));
		}
	}


Then activate your extension in your [config.yml](/topics/configuration) file.

	:::yml
	SiteConfig:
	  extensions:
	    - CustomSiteConfig


This tells SilverStripe to add the CustomSiteConfig extension to the `[api:SiteConfig]` class. 

After adding those two pieces of code, rebuild your database by visiting http://localhost/dev/build and then reload
the admin interface. You may need to reload it with a ?flush=1 on the end.

You can define as many extensions for `[api:SiteConfig]` as you need. For example if you are developing a module you can define
your own global settings for the dashboard.

## API Documentation
`[api:SiteConfig]`

Commit message:

Review and tidy up of configuration guide

docs/en/02_Developer_Guides/04_Configuration/01_SiteConfig.md, after:

title: SiteConfig
summary: Content author configuration through the SiteConfig module.

# SiteConfig

The `SiteConfig` module provides a generic interface for managing site wide settings or functionality which is used 
throughout the site. Out of the box this includes selecting the current site theme, site name and site wide access.

## Accessing variables

`SiteConfig` options can be accessed from any template by using the $SiteConfig variable.

	:::ss
	$SiteConfig.Title 
	$SiteConfig.Tagline
	
	<% with $SiteConfig %>
		$Title $AnotherField
	<% end_loop %>

To access variables in the PHP:

	:::php
	$config = SiteConfig::current_site_config(); 
	
	echo $config->Title;

	// returns "Website Name"


## Extending SiteConfig

To extend the options available in the panel, define your own fields via a [api:DataExtension].

**mysite/code/extensions/CustomSiteConfig.php**

	:::php
	<?php
	
	class CustomSiteConfig extends DataExtension {
		
		private static $db = array(
			'FooterContent' => 'HTMLText'
		);
	
		public function updateCMSFields(FieldList $fields) {
			$fields->addFieldToTab("Root.Main", 
				new HTMLEditorField("FooterContent", "Footer Content")
			);
		}
	}

Then activate the extension.

**mysite/_config/app.yml**

	:::yml
	SiteConfig:
	  extensions:
	    - CustomSiteConfig

<div class="notice" markdown="1">
After adding the class and the YAML change, make sure to rebuild your database by visiting http://yoursite.com/dev/build.
You may also need to reload the screen with a `flush=1` i.e http://yoursite.com/admin/settings?flush=1.
</div>

You can define as many extensions for `SiteConfig` as you need. For example, if you're developing a module and what to
provide the users a place to configure settings then the `SiteConfig` panel is the place to go it.

## API Documentation

* `[api:SiteConfig]`
